README.md, before:

# Loconomics

Root folders include documentation (/docs and /styleguide*1) and sub-projects (/app, /web and the /iCalendarLib library).

*1: Styleguide is currently obsolete, the design is implemented in /app.

## App
It's a web app that targets mobile (using Phonegap) and the front-end for the web.

It uses:
- Web platform: html, css, js
- Preprocessors: Stylus (CSS), Browserify (js), Bliss (html)
- Main libraries: jQuery-2, Bootstrap-3, Knockoutjs-3.3, polyfills for ES5 and ES6-Promise, momentjs.
- Nodejs to assist front-end development, using Grunt as tasks runner.

### Prepare dev environment
- Clone the git repository, master branch.
- Install NodeJS (minimum version 0.10, not tested with the newest ones like 4.1 but must work): https://nodejs.org/ (it has packages/installers for Windows, Mac and Linux)
- From the command line, use the NodeJS Package Manager (npm) to globally install
  - [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/), type:

    > npm install -g grunt-cli
  - [Phonegap](http://phonegap.com/), type:

    > npm install -g phonegap
  
  Linux and Mac may require root/elevated rights in order to install globally.
- From the command line at the project directory type

  > npm install

  It will install all the modules listed on the package.json file, needed to build the app source code.

### Organization (main folders)
- /source: source code of the app and templates of configuration files
- /build: automatic content, generated by the build process from source
- /phonegap: automatic content, generated by the build process targetting Phonegap.
- /build/latest.zip: It's a compressed bundled of the /phonegap content, ready to use in the PhoneGap Build service, used to compile the project for iOS and Android in the cloud (file ignored by git).
- /node_modules: automatic content, managed by npm
- /grunt: javascript files that define automated tasks using the Grunt task runner.
- /trials: some testing files for things being developed, to try in a isolated context, temporary content.
- /vendor: third party modules that are not at npm, or needed some custom build, or forked third party modules.
- /package.js: NodeJS package definition file, keeps modules dependencies (npm) and some set-up variables.
- /Gruntfile.js: file required by the Grunt task runner on the project root folder; more code is organized in the /grunt folder to don't have a fat Gruntfile.js file.

### Adding new pages to the app
**Add new files in (copy an existing example and rename):**
- app/source/html/activities
- app/source/css/activities
- app/source/js/activities

**Add line reference to new activity in (copy an existing line & edit with new activity name):**
- app/source/css/app.styl
- app/source/js/app.activities.js

**Edit your new html, css, js files**

**To access the new page:**
- http://localhost:8811/app.html#!/newActivity

### Build the source code
**All next commands must be executed in a command line/terminal at the project directory**

Run next command:
> grunt build

It will recreate the content of the /build and /phonegap folders.

To test the webapp in the browser, a lightweight built-in http server is being used (*connect*), to start it, run next command and keep the task alive:
> grunt connect:atbuild

But *it's better* to run next special task, that performs the previous one and other things:
> grunt atwork

- runs the *connect* server at http://localhost:8811/
- runs the *watch* task that will listen for changes on source files to automatically rebuild the needed files
(specific builds are performed, like build-js, build-css, depending on the modified files;
when they finish, the browser can be refreshed to try latest changes).
- by modifying the package.json file (to update the version number, for example :-), the *watch* task will
run the *grunt build* task, rebuilding everything; when it finishs, the /build/latest.zip file is ready to be sent
to PhoneGap Build, and the phonegap folder is ready to perform local PhoneGap builds.
- when the build ends, a notification is sent to the system (more info at https://github.com/dylang/grunt-notify).

**PhoneGap Build** cloud service is used to create the intallation packages for iOS and Android.

To perform that task in your own computer, you need the SDKs of each platform:
- Apple XCode installed to create the iOS app; run the command:

  > phonegap build ios
  
- Android SDKs installed to create the Android app; run the command:

  > phonegap build android
  
Remember that the Phonegap plugins must be installed previously in order to be included in the local build.
It's done by placing you in the /app/phonegap directory from the command line/terminal and running something like:

> phonegap plugin add https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/cordova-plugin-inappbrowser.git

The file /app/source/cordova-config.js.xml has a list of all the plugins in use (look at the *gap:plugin* elements),
this config is used by the PhoneGap Build service to automatically install them. The version in use is there too, but not
git URL, the package name can be used to locate it at [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and found the project git URL there.

## Filing Github Issues

We use Github to track all development issues, marketing tasks, and a repository for for other related project information.

When filing an issue, you must do the following:
- Select which milestone to attach it to:
  - **Information Repository** Meeting Notes, People to connect with, Journalists to contact, Knowledge Base, etc.
  - **Sandbox** All development issues not yet included in an upcoming release. Follow format outlined in milestone.
  - **Marketing** All outstanding marketing items not yet included in specific marketing milestones.
  - **Release X.XX** Issues to be completed and closed for a specific app release. Only @dani0198 or @iagosrl should add or remove issues from these.
- Label approriately the issue:
  - **Sandbox** 
    - Include: 
    - **Gray label** (issue type): 
      - Bug 
      - Content
      - Feature 
      - Enhancement (to an existing feature)
      - Usability (front end changes to make feature more usable)
      - Optimization (of an existing feature)
    - **Blue label** (feature area)
    - **P label** (priority:
      - P1 (The issue will be seen by all users.)
      - P2 (The issue will be seen by most users.)
      - P3 (The issue will be seen by about half of users.)
      - P4 (The issue will not be seen by most users. Usually the issue is a very specific use case or corner case.)
    - **R label** (readiness):
      - R1 (The issue is ready to be put into a release with all supporting documentation completed. 
        - **NEW ISSUE CREATED WITH CLEAN FORMAT & OLD ISSUE CLOSED & REFERENCED**)
      - R2 (The issue has been deemed necessary by users and business team. Supporting documentation is being completed.)
      - R3 (The issue is a well formed idea able to be articulated to users. Should be shared so that they may vote on it.)
      - R4 (The issue is just an idea with no or little supporting documentation.)
    - **S label** (severity-ONLY FOR BUGS):
      - S1 (The issue is blocking an impending release.)
      - S2 (The issue causes data loss, crashes or hangs salt processes, makes the system unresponsive, etc.)
      - S3 (The issue reports incorrect functionality, bad functionality, a confusing user experience, etc.)
      - S4 (The issue reports cosmetic items, formatting, spelling, colors, etc.)

Commit message:

Update README.md with info about database updates

README.md, after:

# Loconomics

Root folders include documentation (/docs and /styleguide*1) and sub-projects (/app, /web and the /iCalendarLib library).

*1: Styleguide is currently obsolete, the design is implemented in /app.

## App
It's a web app that targets mobile (using Phonegap) and the front-end for the web.

It uses:
- Web platform: html, css, js
- Preprocessors: Stylus (CSS), Browserify (js), Bliss (html)
- Main libraries: jQuery-2, Bootstrap-3, Knockoutjs-3.3, polyfills for ES5 and ES6-Promise, momentjs.
- Nodejs to assist front-end development, using Grunt as tasks runner.

### Prepare dev environment
- Clone the git repository, master branch.
- Install NodeJS (minimum version 0.10, not tested with the newest ones like 4.1 but must work): https://nodejs.org/ (it has packages/installers for Windows, Mac and Linux)
- From the command line, use the NodeJS Package Manager (npm) to globally install
  - [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/), type:

    > npm install -g grunt-cli
  - [Phonegap](http://phonegap.com/), type:

    > npm install -g phonegap
  
  Linux and Mac may require root/elevated rights in order to install globally.
- From the command line at the project directory type

  > npm install

  It will install all the modules listed on the package.json file, needed to build the app source code.

### Organization (main folders)
- /source: source code of the app and templates of configuration files
- /build: automatic content, generated by the build process from source
- /phonegap: automatic content, generated by the build process targetting Phonegap.
- /build/latest.zip: It's a compressed bundled of the /phonegap content, ready to use in the PhoneGap Build service, used to compile the project for iOS and Android in the cloud (file ignored by git).
- /node_modules: automatic content, managed by npm
- /grunt: javascript files that define automated tasks using the Grunt task runner.
- /trials: some testing files for things being developed, to try in a isolated context, temporary content.
- /vendor: third party modules that are not at npm, or needed some custom build, or forked third party modules.
- /package.js: NodeJS package definition file, keeps modules dependencies (npm) and some set-up variables.
- /Gruntfile.js: file required by the Grunt task runner on the project root folder; more code is organized in the /grunt folder to don't have a fat Gruntfile.js file.

### Adding new pages to the app
**Add new files in (copy an existing example and rename):**
- app/source/html/activities
- app/source/css/activities
- app/source/js/activities

**Add line reference to new activity in (copy an existing line & edit with new activity name):**
- app/source/css/app.styl
- app/source/js/app.activities.js

**Edit your new html, css, js files**

**To access the new page:**
- http://localhost:8811/app.html#!/newActivity

### Build the source code
**All next commands must be executed in a command line/terminal at the project directory**

Run next command:
> grunt build

It will recreate the content of the /build and /phonegap folders.

To test the webapp in the browser, a lightweight built-in http server is being used (*connect*), to start it, run next command and keep the task alive:
> grunt connect:atbuild

But *it's better* to run next special task, that performs the previous one and other things:
> grunt atwork

- runs the *connect* server at http://localhost:8811/
- runs the *watch* task that will listen for changes on source files to automatically rebuild the needed files
(specific builds are performed, like build-js, build-css, depending on the modified files;
when they finish, the browser can be refreshed to try latest changes).
- by modifying the package.json file (to update the version number, for example :-), the *watch* task will
run the *grunt build* task, rebuilding everything; when it finishs, the /build/latest.zip file is ready to be sent
to PhoneGap Build, and the phonegap folder is ready to perform local PhoneGap builds.
- when the build ends, a notification is sent to the system (more info at https://github.com/dylang/grunt-notify).

**PhoneGap Build** cloud service is used to create the intallation packages for iOS and Android.

To perform that task in your own computer, you need the SDKs of each platform:
- Apple XCode installed to create the iOS app; run the command:

  > phonegap build ios
  
- Android SDKs installed to create the Android app; run the command:

  > phonegap build android
  
Remember that the Phonegap plugins must be installed previously in order to be included in the local build.
It's done by placing you in the /app/phonegap directory from the command line/terminal and running something like:

> phonegap plugin add https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/cordova-plugin-inappbrowser.git

The file /app/source/cordova-config.js.xml has a list of all the plugins in use (look at the *gap:plugin* elements),
this config is used by the PhoneGap Build service to automatically install them. The version in use is there too, but not
git URL, the package name can be used to locate it at [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and found the project git URL there.

##Updating the database
- for scheme changes (new columns, tables, drops,..), if your program to access database generates SQLs for the task, save them in a file at the _DBUpdate with extension ".sql".
- The naming of ".sql" files is : 'Release-' and release number, dash, a consecutive letter, dash, consecutive number, dash, a short descriptive name of the change. I see sometimes I forgot the last dash but doesn't matters, what is **important is to keep the order** in which changes were done. I use the letters to group changes that are part of a same consecutive task (like in this case, 1-add new column, 2-insert new data, both with the same letter that is the next one available -right now the D in Release-7.1).
- Why the order is important? Because if you changes the order things can break, breaking *live* database and its data.
- for data updates: if applied on *system* tables (the ones that we keep manually, no interaction from the code except to read it; like countries, statuses, types and that kind of things), I have a TestDBSync page to help with that, but may require create some SQL templates first, let to me for now.
- for data updates: if applied over *user* tables, that's more complicated and need a manually written and well tested SQL script. Rare cases need it, mostly when changing how some existent data is stored.


## Filing Github Issues

We use Github to track all development issues, marketing tasks, and a repository for for other related project information.

When filing an issue, you must do the following:
- Select which milestone to attach it to:
  - **Information Repository** Meeting Notes, People to connect with, Journalists to contact, Knowledge Base, etc.
  - **Sandbox** All development issues not yet included in an upcoming release. Follow format outlined in milestone.
  - **Marketing** All outstanding marketing items not yet included in specific marketing milestones.
  - **Release X.XX** Issues to be completed and closed for a specific app release. Only @dani0198 or @iagosrl should add or remove issues from these.
- Label approriately the issue:
  - **Sandbox** 
    - Include: 
    - **Gray label** (issue type): 
      - Bug 
      - Content
      - Feature 
      - Enhancement (to an existing feature)
      - Usability (front end changes to make feature more usable)
      - Optimization (of an existing feature)
    - **Blue label** (feature area)
    - **P label** (priority:
      - P1 (The issue will be seen by all users.)
      - P2 (The issue will be seen by most users.)
      - P3 (The issue will be seen by about half of users.)
      - P4 (The issue will not be seen by most users. Usually the issue is a very specific use case or corner case.)
    - **R label** (readiness):
      - R1 (The issue is ready to be put into a release with all supporting documentation completed. 
        - **NEW ISSUE CREATED WITH CLEAN FORMAT & OLD ISSUE CLOSED & REFERENCED**)
      - R2 (The issue has been deemed necessary by users and business team. Supporting documentation is being completed.)
      - R3 (The issue is a well formed idea able to be articulated to users. Should be shared so that they may vote on it.)
      - R4 (The issue is just an idea with no or little supporting documentation.)
    - **S label** (severity-ONLY FOR BUGS):
      - S1 (The issue is blocking an impending release.)
      - S2 (The issue causes data loss, crashes or hangs salt processes, makes the system unresponsive, etc.)
      - S3 (The issue reports incorrect functionality, bad functionality, a confusing user experience, etc.)
      - S4 (The issue reports cosmetic items, formatting, spelling, colors, etc.)
