## File Organization
### /app
Front-end app code:
  - /source: source code of the app and templates of configuration files
    - /html/activities: HTML source code. Each file needs to have a matching /js/activities file and optionally /css/activities.
    - /css/activities: CSS code for matching HTML files. Each file needs to be included in app/source/css/app.styl.
    - /js/activities: JS code for matching HTML files. Each file needs to be included in app/source/js/app.activities.js.
    - /js/models: JS code that defines the data from the rest api as javascript objects. Referenced in both JS activities and JS data modules.
    - /js/data: JS code, know as 'data modules', that provides APIs to access and modify the app and webservice data, closely related to models. This includes access to remote data (REST API webservice), local copy (for persistent cache and set-up) and in memory cache. Sub-directories here holds modules with drivers and helpers exclusively used by data modules.
  - /build: automatic content, generated by the build process from source. Any content inside is ignored by git.
  - /phonegap: mostly automatic content, generated by the build process targetting Phonegap; there are some files and place-holder directories meant for Phonegap specific code or assets that don't fit in 'source' directory.
  - /build/*.zip: Compressed bundleds with the /phonegap content, generated by build tasks, ready to use in the [PhoneGap Build service]((Deploying the App.md)) (to compile the project for iOS and Android in the cloud).
  - /node_modules: automatic content, managed by npm
  - /grunt: javascript files that define automated tasks using the Grunt task runner.
  - /trials: some testing files for things being developed, to try in a isolated context, temporary content.
  - /vendor: third party modules that are not at npm, or needed some custom build, or forked third party modules.
  - /package.js: NodeJS package definition file, keeps modules dependencies (npm) and some set-up variables.
  - /Gruntfile.js: file required by the Grunt task runner on the project root folder; more code is organized in the /grunt folder to don't have a fat Gruntfile.js file.

### /docs
All documentation:
- /agile-templates: templates for creating personas and user stories
- /Personas: personas for core users of the app with attached user stories

### /iCalendarLib
C# library for iCalendar standard support.

### /web
Back-end webservice (REST API) and website:
- /_DBUpdate: MS SQL files of any changes to the database to ensure the dev, test and live databases get updated accordingly.
- /api/v1: CSHTML files that communicate with the server and retrieve API data
  - /me: Information about a user requesting information about themselves, mostly private
  - /user: Information about a user requesting information about another user, mostly public
- /App_Code/LcPricing: C# files for specific pricing stuff, like pricing types set-up. *Currently some classes are deprecated or need rework*.
- /App_Code/LcRest: C# files that implements the schemes for specific objects in the REST API, and static methods/queries/updates for database operations
- /en-US/EmailCommunications: CSTHML files for all e-mail communcations sent to users
  - /Admin: Communications to users their account (welcome, password resets, etc.)
    - /Internal: Communications sent to employees about important user actions (background check/license verification requests)
  - /Booking: Communications to users about bookings
    - /BookNow: All communications for BookNow bookings (from a service professional's website)
    - /Marketplace: All communications for Marketplace bookings (from the Loconomic's website/app)
    - /ServiceProfessionalBooking: All communications for bookings made by the service professional
